approach and way f thinking that will help them get started in a new field or domain. This chapter sets the scene for the choices that will be explored in detail throughout the rest of this book. Then, it will help you understand why the challenge of entrepreneurial choice is difficult and unique, and also give you a working framework that you can use to make them. Forming a core idea: identifying what you can choose In Chapter 3, we already saw that entrepreneurs have certain characteristics that are part of their identity and skill set. They have a passion for particular values and they have skills that may give them an unfair advantage. But every entrepreneur must have a core idea. A venture’s core idea is the fundamental entrepreneurial opportunity and insight that the venture will be built on. The core idea is something that is hard to come by and even harder to move away from. Indeed, in many respects, if you change your core idea, you are really founding an entirely new venture (See Box: If you change your idea, you have a new venture). Along with the entrepreneur themself, it is the thing that will not change as the venture evolves, and importantly, it gives the entrepreneur insight into the choices they will have to make as they form their venture. In fact, the best way to identify those choices is to know and be able to state very clearly what the core idea of the venture is. If you change your idea, you have a new venture While entrepreneurs cannot really change their passion or their unfair advantage, ideas can come and go. For each core idea, there are many possible strategies and entrepreneurial choice is about selecting between them. But some ventures form and their core idea changes. Here is a case in point. Before Instagram, the big startup for photo sharing was Flickr. When they started in 2002, Flickr’s founders had another idea. For Caterina Fake and Stewart Butterfield, their desire was to create a social game that drove interactions between people. A year later, their project called “Game Neverending” looked like it would never start. They were running out of money and the game was not even developed yet. What they had, however, was a user-interface that allowed people to drag game objects around. They then had the inspiration that user-interface could be a great way of sharing photos instead. They could deploy Flickr quickly and thanks to a loan from the Canadian government, they had enough runway left. Flickr involved a fundamentally different idea than Game Neverending. Fake and Butterfield were very lucky that some of the development they had from doing one became inspiration for the other. So, while legally this all looked like the same company, conceptually it was a new and distinct venture. That new venture would prove to be lucrative with with 