approach  and  way  of  thinking  that  will  help  them  get  started  in  a  new  field  or 

domain.  

This  chapter  sets  the  scene  for  the  choices  that  will  be  explored  in  detail 

throughout  the  rest  of  this  book.  Then,  it  will  help  you  understand  why  the 

challenge  of  entrepreneurial  choice  is  difficult  and  unique,  and  also  give  you  a 

working framework that you can use to make them.  

Forming a core idea: identifying what you can choose 

In Chapter 3, we already saw that entrepreneurs have certain characteristics 

that are part of their identity and skill set. They have a passion for particular values 

and  they  have  skills  that  may  give  them  an  unfair  advantage.  But  every 

entrepreneur  must  have  a  core  idea.  A  venture’s  core  idea  is  the  fundamental 

entrepreneurial opportunity and insight that the venture will be built on. The 

core idea is something that is hard to come by and even harder to move away from. 

Indeed, in many respects, if you change your core idea, you are really founding an 

entirely new venture (See Box: If you change your idea, you have a new venture).  

Along with the entrepreneur themself, it is the thing that will not change as the 

venture evolves, and importantly, it gives the entrepreneur insight into the choices 

they will have to make as they form their venture. In fact, the best way to identify 

those choices is to know and be able to state very clearly what the core idea of 

the venture is.  

If you change your idea, you have a new venture 

While entrepreneurs cannot really change their passion or their unfair advantage, ideas can 

come and go. For each core idea, there are many possible strategies and entrepreneurial choice is about 

selecting between them. But some ventures form and their core idea changes. Here is a case in point. 

Before  Instagram,  the  big startup  for  photo  sharing  was Flickr.  When  they  started  in  2002, 

Flickr’s  founders  had  another  idea.  For  Caterina  Fake  and  Stewart  Butterfield,  their  desire  was  to 

create a social game that drove interactions between people. A year later, their project called “Game 

Neverending” looked like it would never start. They were running out of money and the game was 

not even developed yet. What they had, however, was a user-interface that allowed people to drag 

game objects around. They then had the inspiration that user-interface could be a great way of sharing 

 
photos instead. They could deploy Flickr quickly and thanks to a loan from the Canadian government, 

they had enough runway left. 

Flickr involved a fundamentally different idea than Game Neverending. Fake and Butterfield 

were very lucky that some of the development they had from doing one became inspiration for the 

other. So, while legally this all looked like the same company, conceptually it was a new and distinct 

venture. That new venture would prove to be lucrative with with Flickr selling to Yahoo in 2005 for 

$25 million. 

Butterfield went on to try his hand at a gaming startup again in 2009 with a Vancouver based-

startup, Glitch. It failed but the founders noticed that an internal tool they had developed to allow 

better communication was a potentially powerful replacement for email. They chose to develop that 

instead and launched the tool as Slack in 2015. In 2019, Slack went public with a value in excess of $15 

billion and, in 2020, sold to Salesforce for $27 billion. Once again, one idea had evolved, almost by 

accident, into another. 

The examples of both Flickr and Slack show what happens when a venture starts in one place 

and  then  morphs  into  something  different.  What  is  striking  and  perhaps  unusual  is  how  far  the 

venture’s idea moved from its original. In reality, for most ventures, their core idea is something that 

is  fixed  and  does  not  change  even  as  the  venture  itself  might  evolve  to  look  like  something  very 

different. Regardless, when framing all of the options available for a venture, it is useful to identify 

the core idea, first, as it provides a foundation upon which the venture will be built.  

To  understand  this  better,  let’s  consider  the  way  many  entrepreneurs 

describe their venture by relating it to an already successful concept. For example, 

an  entrepreneur  may  claim  that  what  they  are  doing  is,  say,  “Uber  for  dog 

grooming.” This is a useful and efficient means of communication. With those four 

words, someone can readily understand that this venture is likely some form of 

mobile service that brings dog groomers to dog owners, on-demand. However, no 

matter how useful these devices of communicating by analogy are, there is a trap 

involved in thinking this way at the outset; it does not show the many choices and 

entrepreneur  will  need  to  make  at  the  outset.  As  we  will  see,  below,  a  good 

statement of a core idea should omit references to the venture’s initial customer 

(dog  owners),  technology  (mobile  applications),  organization  (network  of 

groomers) and competition (traditional grooming shops). Instead, it should focus 

solely on the identified opportunity. 

 
Continuing  on  with  our  dog  grooming  entrepreneur,  let’s  step  back  for  a 

moment to try and understand what the core idea might be. At present, most dog 

grooming is conducted with dog owners bringing their dogs to be groomed by a 

professional. There are some services that involve mobile dog grooming stations 

that  are  booked  in  advance.  This  takes  planning.  Our  intrepid  entrepreneur, 

themself a dog owner, realized that both of these current services did not serve a 

specific type of problem well—what happens if a dog needs immediate grooming 

attention? For instance, Fido may have wallowed around in the mud and muck 

and is in such a state that you can’t just hose him down (especially since you have 

visitors coming over soon). You don’t want to take your dog to a groomer as this 

will likely spread the dirt throughout your car. You can’t wait until another slot 

for a mobile dog groomer comes around. In other words, an entrepreneur might 

come to realize there is some value in an on-demand solution and look for a way 

to solve it. 

Now one way you could imagine solving this problem for dog owners is to 

have  dog  groomers  available  that  could  be  called  out  to  people’s  homes.  This 

would involve a logistical challenge but it would be the job of the venture to solve 

that.  However,  with  some more  thought, the  entrepreneur  might  come up  with 

other ways to solve the problem. Another way would be to transport the dirty dog 

to  dog  groomers  so  that  the  dog  owner  does  not  have  to  use  their  own  car.  Or 

perhaps the solution is to sell people some solution to allow them to transport dirty 

dogs in their own cars. In the end, one realizes there are numerous options and 

each no doubt has its own advantages and disadvantages. The point is that it is 

not  necessarily  obvious  that  the  only  solution  is  something  like  Uber.  There  are 

other  options  and  before  embarking  on  any  one  of  them, it  is  important  that  an 

entrepreneur explore them.  

In this particular situation, a well-formed core idea would not be “Uber for 

dog groomers” but instead a venture better described as “solving the problem of 

how  to  deal  with  a  dirty  animal  right  away.”  (See  BOX:  Core  ideas  for  famous 

startups). The key is to state the core idea for a venture independent of key choices you will 

make as you build your business idea. 

For example, important choices in this venture will include: 

•  who the targeted set of customers are (notice that the idea stated here 

does not mention dogs but animals in general),  

•  the technology that brings them there (there is no mention of an app 

on a mobile phone),  

•  who does what (there is no mention of who grooms the animal); and  

•  who competitors are.  

These types of choices form the game plan of a venture and can be readily changed 

while the core idea largely stays the same. In fact, entrepreneurs face broad areas 

or  domains  of  choice  involving  customers,  technology,  organization,  and 

competition. In the following chapters, we will examine these further. But before 

we get to that, it is important to consider why choices like these are important and 

the process by which those choices can be arrived at. 

Core Ideas for Famous Startups 

A core idea of a venture is a statement of their entrepreneurial opportunity without any 
reference  to  particular  choices. Here  are some  examples  of  core  ideas  that we  have  derived for 
famous ventures: 

•  Amazon: use the Internet to order and deliver goods directly to consumers 

•  Google: use the Internet to organize the world’s information 

•  Uber: use mobile technology to easily match riders with rides 

•  Spanx: use new materials for clothing shape and comfort 

•  Flickr: allow people to store and share photos over the Internet 

•  Slack: provide a means for members of an organization to interact with one another 

•  Twitter: allow sharing content quickly and easily 

•  Dolby:  use  advanced  sound  algorithms  to  improve  sound  recording  playback 

quality 

In  each  case,  what  the  core  idea  describes  is  what  the  venture  is  doing  and  what  the  baseline 
technology is that is spurring the idea.  

 
 
