nventions and Confidentiality Agreement 

Between Company hereinafter called the "Employer" or "Company", Of the First Part 

And Me

hereinafter called the "Employee", Of the Second Part 

In consideration of my employment or continued employment by the Company, and the compensation now and hereafter paid to me as an employee with the Company, the Employee agrees with the Employer as follows: 

1. Certain Definitions. The following terms have the following meanings: "Inventions" means trade secrets, inventions, integrated circuit topographies, mask works, ideas, processes, methods, formulae, source and object codes, data, programs, other works of authorship, knowhow, improvements, discoveries, developments, designs and techniques; 

"Proprietary Rights" means all rights in regard to trade secret, trade mark, patent, industrial design, copyright, integrated circuit topography, mask work and all other intellectual property rights recognized throughout the world. 

2. Assignment of Inventions. The Employee does hereby assign to the Company, without additional compensation or other consideration, all of my right, title and interest in and to all Inventions, and all Proprietary Rights with respect thereto, whether or not patentable or registrable under copyright or similar statutes which are authored, made, conceived, developed or reduced to practice or learned by me alone or jointly with others at any time during the term of my employment with the Company which: 

(a) relate to the actual or anticipated business, work, research or investigations of the Company or any of its affiliates, or 

(b) result from or are suggested by any work done for the Company or any of its affiliates: or 

(c) are conceived or made on the time of, or with the use of the facilities or materials of, the Company or any of its affiliates ( collectively referred to as "Company Inventions") 

3. Waiver of Moral Rights. The Employee irrevocably waives any and all moral rights that the Employee may have to all Company Inventions, which moral rights are acknowledged to include the right to the integrity of the Company Inventions, the right to restrain or claim damages for any distortion, mutilation or other modification of any part of the Company Inventions, the right to be associated with the Company Inventions as an author by name or under an assumed name, the right to remain anonymous when any translation of the Company Inventions is produced, performed or published, and the right to restrain use or reproduction of the Company Invention in any contest and in connection with any product or service. 

4. Records. During the period of my employment and thereafter, Employee will promptly disclose to the Company fully and in writing all Company Inventions authored, made, conceived or reduced to practice by me, either alone or jointly with others. At the request of the Company, Employee further agrees to keep and maintain adequate and current records (in the form of notes, sketches, drawings and in any other form that may be required by the Company) of all information 

(a) developed by me regarding plans for research, development, new products, marketing and selling, business plans, budgets and unpublished financial statements, licenses, prices and costs, suppliers and customers; and 

(b) all Company Inventions authored, made, conceived or reduced to practice by me during the period of my employment at the Company, which records shall be available to and remain the sole property of the Company at all times. 

5. Enforcement of Proprietary Rights. Employee will assist the Company, at the Company's expense, in every proper way to obtain, and from time to time enforce, Proprietary Rights relating to Company Inventions in any and all countries. Employee will execute, verify and deliver such documents and perform such other acts (including appearances as a witness) as the Company may reasonably request in connection with applying for, obtaining, perfecting, evidencing, sustaining and enforcing such Proprietary Rights and the assignment thereof. In addition, Employee will execute, verify and deliver specific assignments of Company Inventions (and all Proprietary Rights with respect thereto) to the Company or its nominee. Employee's obligations under this Section shall continue beyond the termination of my employment. 


If the Company is unable for any reason, after reasonable effort, to secure my signature on any document needed in connection with the actions specified in the preceding paragraph, Employee hereby irrevocably designates and appoints the Company and its duly authorized officers and agents as my agent and attorney in fact, which appointment is coupled with an interest, to act for and on my behalf to execute, verify and file any such documents and to do all other lawfully permitted acts to further the purposes of the preceding paragraph with the same legal force and effect as if executed by me. 

6. Nondisclosure. At all times during Employee's employment by the Company and thereafter, Employee will hold in strictest confidence and will not disclose, use, lecture upon or publish any of the Proprietary Information (defined below) of the Company or any of its affiliates, except as such disclosure, use or publication may be required in connection with my work for the Company, [or unless an officer of the Company expressly authorizes such in writing]. Employee will obtain the Company's written approval before publishing or submitting for publication any material (written, verbal, or otherwise) that relates to my work at the Company and/or incorporates any Proprietary Information. Employee hereby assigns, and shall assign, to the Company or its nominee any rights Employee may have or acquire in such Proprietary Information and recognize that all Proprietary Information shall be the sole property of the Company and its assigns. 

The term "Proprietary Information" means any and all confidential and/or proprietary knowledge, data or information of the Company, its successors or assigns, or any of their respective affiliates. By way of illustration but not limitation, "Proprietary Information" includes 

(a) any Inventions; and 

(b) information regarding plans for research, development, new products, marketing and selling, business plans, budgets and unpublished financial statements, licenses, prices and costs, suppliers and customers; and 

(c) information regarding the skills and compensation of other employees of the Company or any of its affiliates. Notwithstanding the foregoing, it is understood that, at all such times, Employee is free to use information which is or becomes generally known to the public other than through a breach of this Agreement. 


7. Third Party Information. Employee understands, in addition, that the Company has received and in the future will receive information from third parties ("Third Party Information") subject to a duty on the Company's part to maintain the confidentiality of such information and to use it only for certain limited purposes. During the term of my employment and thereafter, Employee will hold Third Party Information in the strictest confidence and will not disclose to anyone (other than Company personnel who need to know such information in connection with their work for the Company) or use, except in connection with my work for the Company and in compliance with the Company's obligations to third parties regarding confidentiality and use, Third Party Information [unless expressly authorized by an officer of the Company in writing]. 


8 No Improper Use of Information of Prior Employers and Others. During Employee's employment by the Company, Employee will not improperly use or disclose any confidential information, trade secrets, Proprietary Rights, or other information, if any, of any former employer or any other person to whom Employee has an obligation of confidentiality, and Employee will not bring onto the premises of the Company any unpublished documents or any property belonging to any former employer or any other person to whom Employee has an obligation of confidentiality unless consented to in writing by that former employer or person. 


9 No Conflicting Obligation. Employee represents that the performance of my duties of employment does not and will not breach any agreement which may still be in effect: 

(a) to keep in confidence information acquired by me in confidence or in trust prior to my employment by the Company; 

or (b) and/or (b) which would otherwise have a bearing on my employment with the Company. Employee has not entered into, and Employee agrees that Employee will not enter into, any agreement either written or oral in conflict with the provisions of this Agreement. 


10. Return of Materials. When Employee leaves the employ of the Company, Employee will deliver to the Company any and all drawings, notes, memoranda, specifications, devices, formulas, and documents, together with all copies thereof, and any other material containing or disclosing any Company Inventions, Third Party Information or Proprietary Information of the Company (including, without limitation, any material stored in electronic form on computer hard drives or on portable storage media). If any computer hard drives or portable storage media that are not required to be returned to the Company store such material, then Employee will purge the material after printing copies thereof and providing them to the Company. 

11. Legal and Equitable Remedies. Employee understands and agrees that the Company will suffer irreparable injury if Employee breaches any of the provisions of this Agreement and that monetary damages will not provide an adequate remedy to the Company. Accordingly, if Employee commits a breach, or threaten to commit a breach, of any of the provisions of this Agreement, the Company shall have the right to enforce this Agreement and any of its provisions by injunction, specific performance or other equitable relief, without the posting of bond or other security or proof of actual damages and without prejudice to any other rights and remedies that the Company may have for a breach of this Agreement. 


12. Notification of New Employer. In the event that Employee leaves the employ of the Company, Employee hereby consents to the notification of my new employer of my rights and obligations under this Agreement. 

13. General Provisions. 

(a) Notices. Any notices required or permitted hereunder shall be given to me at my address as last shown on the records of the Company. Such notice shall be deemed given upon personal delivery to the address specified or if sent by certified or registered mail, three (3) days after the date of mailing. 

(b) Governing Law. This Agreement will be governed by and construed according to the laws of the Province or State in which Employee performs my principal duties of employment. Employee hereby submits to the jurisdiction of the Courts located in such Province or State for the purposes of this Agreement. 

(c) Severability. If any of the provisions contained in this Agreement are held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the same shall not affect the remainder of this Agreement, which shall be given full effect, without regard to the invalid, illegal or unenforceable portion or portions. 

(d) Successors and Assigns. This Agreement will be binding upon my heirs, executors, administrators and other legal representatives and will be for the benefit of the Company and its successors and assigns. This Agreement may be assigned by the Company without my consent. 

(e) Survival. The provisions of this Agreement shall survive the termination of my employment or the assignment of this Agreement by the Company to any successor in interest or other assignee. 


(f) Waiver. No waiver by the Company of any breach of this Agreement shall be a waiver of any preceding or succeeding breach. No waiver by the Company of any right under this Agreement shall be construed as a waiver of any other right. The Company shall not be required to give notice to enforce strict adherence to all terms of this Agreement. 

(g) Entire Agreement. This Agreement is the entire agreement of the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes and merges all prior agreements and discussions between us. No modification of or amendment to this Agreement, nor any waiver of any rights under this Agreement, will be effective unless in writing and signed by the party to be charged. Any subsequent change or changes in my duties, salary or compensation will not affect the validity or scope of this Agreement. 

(h) Advice of Counsel. Employee acknowledges that, in executing this Agreement, Employee has had the opportunity to seek the advice of independent legal counsel, and Employee has read and understood all of the terms and provisions of this Agreement. In Witness Whereof the parties hereto have executed the present agreement in duplicate on the date first above written. 
